https://dermnetnz.org/topics/psoriasis/

What is psoriasis?
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin condition characterised by clearly defined, red and scaly plaques (thickened skin). It is classified into several subtypes.

Who gets psoriasis?
Psoriasis affects 2–4% of males and females. It can start at any age including childhood, with peaks of onset at 15–25 years and 50–60 years. It tends to persist lifelong, fluctuating in extent and severity. It is particularly common in Caucasians but may affect people of any race. About one-third of patients with psoriasis have family members with psoriasis.

What causes psoriasis?
Psoriasis is multifactorial. It is classified as an immune-mediated inflammatory disease (IMID).

Genetic factors are important. An individual's genetic profile influences their type of psoriasis and its response to treatment.

Genome-wide association studies report that the histocompatibility complex HLA-C*06:02 (previously known as HLA-Cw6) is associated with early-onset psoriasis and guttate psoriasis. This major histocompatibility complex is not associated with arthritis, nail dystrophy or late-onset psoriasis.

Theories about the causes of psoriasis need to explain why the skin is red, inflamed and thickened. It is clear that immune factors and inflammatory cytokines (messenger proteins) such as IL1β and TNFα are responsible for the clinical features of psoriasis. Current theories are exploring the TH17 pathway and release of the cytokine IL17A.

What are the clinical features of psoriasis?
Psoriasis usually presents with symmetrically distributed, red, scaly plaques with well-defined edges. The scale is typically silvery white, except in skin folds where the plaques often appear shiny and they may have a moist peeling surface. The most common sites are scalp, elbows and knees, but any part of the skin can be involved. The plaques are usually very persistent without treatment.

Itch is mostly mild but may be severe in some patients, leading to scratching and lichenification (thickened leathery skin with increased skin markings). Painful skin cracks or fissures may occur.

When psoriatic plaques clear up, they may leave brown or pale marks that can be expected to fade over several months.

How is psoriasis classified?
Certain features of psoriasis can be categorised to help determine appropriate investigations and treatment pathways. Overlap may occur.

Early age of onset < 35 years (75%) vs late age of onset > 50 years
Acute eg guttate psoriasis vs chronic plaque psoriasis
Localised eg scalp, palmoplantar psoriasis vs generalised psoriasis
Small plaques < 3 cm vs large plaques > 3 cm
Thin plaques vs thick plaques
Nail involvement vs no nail involvement
Types of psoriasis
Typical patterns of psoriasis.

Post-streptococcal acute guttate psoriasis

Widespread small plaques
Often resolves after several months
Small plaque psoriasis

Often late age of onset
Plaques < 3 cm
Chronic plaque psoriasis

Persistent and treatment-resistant
Plaques > 3 cm
Most often affects elbows, knees and lower back
Ranges from mild to very extensive
Unstable plaque psoriasis

The rapid extension of existing or new plaques
Koebner phenomenon: new plaques at sites of skin injury
Induced by infection, stress, drugs, or drug withdrawal
Flexural psoriasis

Affects body folds and genitals
Smooth, well-defined patches
Colonised by candida yeasts
Scalp psoriasis

Often the first or only site of psoriasis
Sebopsoriasis

Overlap of seborrhoeic dermatitis and psoriasis
Affects scalp, face, ears and chest
Colonised by malassezia
Palmoplantar psoriasis

Palms and/or soles
Keratoderma
Painful fissuring
Nail psoriasis

Pitting, onycholysis, yellowing and ridging
Associated with inflammatory arthritis
Erythrodermic psoriasis (rare)

May or may not be preceded by another form of psoriasis
Acute and chronic forms
May result in systemic illness with temperature dysregulation, electrolyte imbalance, cardiac failure
Psoriasis
Psoriasis
Psoriasis

Scalp psoriasis
© Dr Ph Abimelec –

Plaque psoriasis
Plaque psoriasis

Guttate psoriasis
Guttate psoriasis

Nail psoriasis
© Dr Ph Abimelec –

Psoriasis
Psoriasis

Generalised pustulosis and localised palmoplantar pustulosis are no longer classified within the psoriasis spectrum.

Factors that aggravate psoriasis
Streptococcal tonsillitis and other infections
Injuries such as cuts, abrasions, sunburn (koebnerised psoriasis)
Sun exposure in 10% (sun exposure is more often beneficial)
Obesity
Smoking
Excessive alcohol
Stressful event
Medications such as lithium, beta-blockers, antimalarials, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories and others
Stopping oral steroids or strong topical corticosteroids.
Health conditions associated with psoriasis
Patients with psoriasis are more likely than other people to have other health conditions listed here.

Inflammatory arthritis “psoriatic arthritis” and spondyloarthropathy (in up to 40% of patients with early-onset chronic plaque psoriasis)
Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis)
Uveitis (inflammation of the eye)
Coeliac disease
Metabolic syndrome: obesity, hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, gout, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes
Localised palmoplantar pustulosis, generalised pustulosis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis
How is psoriasis diagnosed?
Psoriasis is diagnosed by its clinical features. If necessary, diagnosis is supported by typical skin biopsy findings.

Assessment of psoriasis
Medical assessment entails a careful history, examination, questioning about the effect of psoriasis on daily life, and evaluation of comorbid factors.

Validated tools used to evaluate psoriasis include:

Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)
Self-Administered Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (SAPASI)
Physicians/Patients Global Assessment (PGA)
Body Surface Area (BSA)
Psoriasis Log-based Area and Severity Index (PLASI)
Simplified Psoriasis Index
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)
SKINDEX-16
The severity of psoriasis is classified as mild in 60% of patients, moderate in 30% and severe in 10%.

Evaluation of comorbidities may include:

Psoriatic Arthritis Screening Evaluation (PASE) or Psoriasis Epidemiology Screening Tool (PEST)
Body Mass Index (BMI, ie height, weight, waist circumference)
Blood pressure (BP) and electrocardiogram (ECG)
Blood sugar and glycosylated haemoglobin
Lipid profile, uric acid
Treatment of psoriasis
General advice
Patients with psoriasis should ensure they are well informed about their skin condition and its treatment. There are benefits from not smoking, avoiding excessive alcohol and maintaining optimal weight.

Topical therapy
Mild psoriasis is generally treated with topical agents alone. Which treatment is selected may depend on body site, extent and severity of psoriasis.

Emollients
Coal tar preparations
Dithranol
Salicylic acid
Vitamin D analogue (calcipotriol)
Topical corticosteroids
Combination calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate ointment/gel or foam
A calcineurin inhibitor (tacrolimus, pimecrolimus)
Phototherapy
Most psoriasis centres offer phototherapy with ultraviolet (UV) radiation, often in combination with topical or systemic agents. Types of phototherapy include

Narrowband UVB
Broadband UVB
Photochemotherapy (PUVA)
Targeted phototherapy
Systemic therapy
Moderate to severe psoriasis warrants treatment with a systemic agent and/or phototherapy. The most common treatments are:

Methotrexate
Ciclosporin
Acitretin
Other medicines occasionally used for psoriasis include:

Mycophenolate
Apremilast
Hydroxyurea
Azathioprine
6-mercaptopurine
Systemic corticosteroids are best avoided due to a risk of severe withdrawal flare of psoriasis and adverse effects.

Biologics
Biologics or targeted therapies are reserved for conventional treatment-resistant severe psoriasis, mainly because of expense, as side effects compare favourably with other systemic agents. These include:

Tumour necrosis factor inhibitors (anti-TNFα) infliximab, adalimumab and etanercept
The interleukin (IL)-12/23 antagonist ustekinumab 
IL-17 antagonists such as secukinumab
Ixekizumab
Brodalumab
Guselkumab
Tildrakizumab
Risankizumab.
Many other monoclonal antibodies are under investigation in the treatment of psoriasis.

Oral agents working through the protein kinase pathways are also under investigation.  Several JAK (Janus kinase) inhibitors are under investigation for psoriasis, including tofacitinib and the TYK2 (tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitor BMS-986165; both are in Phase III trials for psoriasis.