https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/lichen-planus/symptoms-causes/syc-20351378#:~:text=Lichen%20planus%20(LIE%2Dkun%20PLAY,that%20develop%20over%20several%20weeks.

Overview
Photo of lichen planus 
Lichen planus Open pop-up dialog boxPhoto of lichen planus
Lichen planus of nails Open pop-up dialog boxOral lichen planus lesions cause lacy white patches in the mouth.
Oral lichen planus Open pop-up dialog box
Lichen planus (LIE-kun PLAY-nus) is a condition that can cause swelling and irritation in the skin, hair, nails and mucous membranes. On the skin, lichen planus usually appears as purplish, itchy, flat bumps that develop over several weeks. In the mouth, vagina and other areas covered by a mucous membrane, lichen planus forms lacy white patches, sometimes with painful sores.

Most people can manage typical, mild cases of lichen planus at home, without medical care. If the condition causes pain or significant itching, you may need prescription drugs. Lichen planus isn't contagious.

Products & Services
Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health Book, 5th Edition
Show more products from Mayo Clinic
Symptoms
The signs and symptoms of lichen planus vary depending on the areas affected. Typical signs and symptoms are:

Purplish, flat bumps, most often on the inner forearm, wrist or ankle, and sometimes the genitals
Itching
Blisters that break to form scabs or crusts
Lacy white patches in the mouth or on the lips or tongue
Painful sores in the mouth or vagina
Hair loss
Change in scalp color
Nail damage or loss
When to see a doctor
See your doctor if tiny bumps or a rash-like condition appears on your skin for no apparent reason, such as a known allergic reaction or contact with poison ivy. Also see your doctor if you experience any signs or symptoms associated with lichen planus of the mouth, genitals, scalp or nails.

It's best to get a prompt and accurate diagnosis because a number of skin and mucosal conditions can cause lesions and discomfort.

Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic
Causes
Lichen planus occurs when your immune system attacks cells of the skin or mucous membranes. It's not clear why this abnormal immune response happens. The condition isn't contagious.

Lichen planus can be triggered by:

Hepatitis C infection
Flu vaccine
Certain pigments, chemicals and metals
Pain relievers, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen (Aleve, others)
Certain medications for heart disease, high blood pressure or arthritis
Risk factors
Anyone can develop lichen planus. But the condition most often affects middle-aged adults. Oral lichen planus most often affects middle-aged women.

Complications
Lichen planus can be difficult to manage on the vulva and in the vagina, causing severe pain and sometimes leaving scars. Sexual dysfunction can become a long-term complication. Oral sores may affect your ability to eat. The affected skin might stay slightly darker even after the rash clears up, especially in dark-skinned people.

Oral lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer. Left untreated, lichen planus of the ear canal may lead to hearing loss.


The Mayo Clinic experience and patient stories
Our patients tell us that the quality of their interactions, our attention to detail and the efficiency of their visits mean health care like they've never experienced. See the stories of satisfied Mayo Clinic patients.


Turning the Compass Toward New Understanding of Skin Disorders
A seasoned traveler, Lou Appignani relishes exploration and discovery. So when he was diagnosed with an inflammatory condition that affects his skin, he and his wife, Laurie, decided to contribute to medical research at Mayo Clinic to help dermatology experts unravel the mysteries behind skin disorders. As the door opens into Lou and Laurie Appignani's [...]